In the video to follow, you will find it to be of great interest to take a close look
at Jehovah's creation.
Although you will be amazed by the magnitude and intricacy of the physical world around
us, look beyond the awesome material universe.
See the qualities and personality of our grand creator.
This will draw you closer to Him.
Is this difficult to do?
Not really.
But it does require that we make a conscious effort to contemplate Jehovah's marvelous creative
works.
Now, we warmly invite you to draw closer to your loving Heavenly Father as you observe
intently some of the wonders of His creation.
Hey, he's a fast little guy, huh?
Let's go check this out.
You know, there's a lot of amazing things to see out here.
But you can't see them all with your eyes.
What do you mean?
Remember, our family study.
You wanted to know how you could really be God's friend.
Really get to know him, remember?
Yeah, I remember.
You said by studying the Bible.
That's right.
And studying God's Word is the best way.
But there's another way.
Take King David, for example.
What do you think he saw when he looked at the night sky?
The stars?
That's right.
But he saw more than that.
He saw Jehovah.
But how could he see Jehovah in the stars?
People can see Jehovah.
David could see who he is, his personality,
by appreciating the things that he made.
It helped him to draw close to God.
You can draw close to Jehovah in the same way,
from looking at what he's made on Earth to the stars above.
He enjoys looking at creation.
But few realize that they are catching a glimpse
into the mind and heart of our grand creator.
Long ago, David learned about Jehovah
through his inspired word.
But he also saw and drew close to him through creation.
When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers,
the moon, and the stars that you have prepared,
what is mortal man that you keep him in mind,
and the son of Earthling Man that you take care of him?
David loved Jehovah
and saw Jehovah's power, wisdom, and love
reflected all around him.
The world we live in today is designed
to distract us from our creator.
Do you take time to look beyond the man-made world?
When you do, even something seemingly common
becomes extraordinary as you open your eyes
to see the one who made it.
Life are planet, the starry heavens.
Looking at these will help you see Jehovah,
drawing you closer to him.
At Genesis 155, Jehovah invited Abraham
to look up to the heavens and count the stars.
How many stars could he count?
Our Milky Way galaxy contains over 100 billion stars.
Can we even comprehend such a large number?
Let's try by comparing each star in our galaxy
to a page in a book.
How long would it take to examine those pages?
At the rate of a page per second,
it would require over 3,000 years.
In order to count them in your lifetime,
you would need to turn about 50 pages per second
for every moment of your life.
We lack ability to even count the stars.
Yet Jehovah knows each one by name.
Looking beyond our galaxy,
astronomers are finding that sections of the sky
appearing nearly empty from Earth
are actually filled with thousands of other galaxies.
But did Jehovah scatter them randomly?
Even at this colossal scale,
elegant organization is seen.
There is one who is stretching out the heavens
just as a fine gauze,
who spreads them out like a tent in which to dwell.
All of these massive celestial bodies are in constant motion.
Their precise movements have been likened
to the choreography of an elaborate ballet.
Besides their vast numbers,
the distance between stars is also mind-boggling.
Let's try to visualize the distance from our sun
to its nearest neighbor's star, Proxima Centauri.
Imagine that we could shrink our Milky Way galaxy
so that our sun was roughly the size of a soccer ball,
located near New York City.
On this scale, Proxima Centauri
would be almost 4,000 miles away in Paris, France,
a little smaller than a golf ball.
Really, the sun is almost 25 trillion miles away
from its nearest neighbor's star.
We only have to look at the stars
to be filled with awe for Jehovah.
Yet, as the book of Job describes,
what we see are only the fringes of his ways.
When the prophet Isaiah looked at the stars,
he perceived Jehovah's qualities.
Raise your eyes high up and see
who has created these things.
It is the one who is bringing forth the army of them
even by number,
all of whom he calls, even by name.
Due to the abundance of dynamic energy,
he also being vigorous in power,
not one of them is missing.
And how much power was necessary
in the creation of this universe?
There is incredible power found even
at the atomic level of matter,
but man has often used it destructively.
In contrast, as a potter with clay,
Jehovah skillfully used his dynamic energy
to make all the matter of the universe.
The heavens are declaring the glory of God
and up the work of his hands,
the expanse is telling.
In modern times,
we have peered into the far reaches of space
and seen creation at an awe-inspiring scale.
Yours, O Jehovah,
are the greatness and the excellency.
Everything in the heavens is yours.
In your hand,
there are power and mightiness.
When we raise our eyes to the heavens,
we are seeing evidence of Jehovah's unparalleled power.
Jehovah is powerful,
but do you really think he cares about each of us here?
He shows that he cares
and how he designed a comfortable home
made just right for us.
Think about outer space and how barren it is.
Yet the earth hits an oasis.
Remember what Isaiah said,
the former of the earth and the maker of it,
who did not create it simply for nothing,
who formed it even to be inhabited.
But how did Jehovah form the earth
to be inhabited?
More abundant than any other substance on earth,
water is often taken for granted.
Yet it is fundamental to life
by looking closer at water.
What can we learn about the one who designed it?
A single glass of water contains countless trillions of molecules.
Each molecule has a deceptively simple design,
two atoms of hydrogen attached to one atom of oxygen.
The oxygen side has a slightly negative charge,
and the hydrogen a slightly positive charge.
These opposite charges attract each other like tiny magnets,
forming what are called hydrogen bonds.
What results from this simple yet elegant design?
As water gets colder, it contracts and grows more dense.
However, unlike most liquids,
as its temperature approaches the freezing point,
something unexpected happens.
Water begins to expand.
As it freezes into ice,
the hydrogen bonds between water molecules lock into place,
crystallizing into a very open lattice.
Due to this unique design,
ice is less dense than liquid water,
and floats on top.
This quality prevents much of the water in lakes, rivers,
and even the oceans from eventually becoming solid ice.
Instead, Jehovah created a natural insulator
that preserves life in the liquid water beneath.
Really, Jehovah's wisdom is seen
in how he masterfully designed the sea,
and fountains of waters.
This abundance of water could not exist
if Earth were not precisely placed within our solar system,
some 93 million miles away from the Sun.
Had the Earth been situated only 5% closer to the Sun,
scorching heat would have made life impossible.
If the Earth were placed only 1% farther from the Sun,
freezing temperatures would have covered much of the globe
with huge sheets of ice.
Jehovah also made the Earth just the right size.
If Earth were slightly larger,
its gravity would be stronger.
Hydrogen, a light gas, would collect,
being unable to escape the Earth's fall.
In time, the atmosphere would be inhospitable to life.
On the other hand, if our Earth were slightly smaller,
life sustaining oxygen and surface water would escape.
In either case, were the Earth larger or smaller,
life would not exist.
Both its size and proximity to the Sun
revealed that Jehovah formed the Earth,
even to be inhabited.
Orbiting around our planet,
we have a faithful witness
that Jehovah purposefully designed our home.
Is the Moon merely an object of beauty
made to adorn the sky?
The psalmist states that Jehovah made the Moon
for appointed times.
What purpose does it serve?
With a diameter one-quarter that of the Earth,
the Moon exerts a strong gravitational force on our planet,
stabilizing the tilt of the Earth's axis of rotation.
Without the Moon,
the Earth would wobble over long periods of time
from nearly zero to 85 degrees.
This would have an extreme effect on our climate.
On part of the Earth, temperatures would soar.
While elsewhere, they would plummet.
Keeping our climate and seasons consistent,
our Moon is at once beautiful and essential to life.
It is fitting that the Bible calls our Moon
a faithful witness in the skies.
When you hear the gentle sounds of water,
when you feel the warmth of the Sun,
when you gaze up at the beautiful Moon,
give thanks to Jehovah,
the one who lovingly prepared our earthly home.
But what draws us even closer to Jehovah
in a personal way is life itself
and how he designed us to enjoy it.
Michael, look how much fun they're having.
We're not robots.
Jehovah has given us the ability to love
and form satisfying relationships.
To laugh and play,
we can appreciate beautiful music,
see and vivid colors,
smell and taste an almost infinite variety.
These things aren't necessary for life,
but they add to our enjoyment.
And what would life be like without these wonderful things?
What if there was no music?
What if there was no emotion?
What if every food, even though nutritious,
had the same color, texture, taste and smell?
That would be boring.
We could still survive,
but would we enjoy life in the same way?
Jehovah has made life absolutely wonderful here on earth.
No wonder we want to live forever.
Remember what King Solomon said?
He has put time and definite into our hearts.
That's the way Jehovah made it.
The more we observe creation,
the more we appreciate that life is a gift
meant to be enjoyed.
Jehovah has given us so many things that fill us with happiness.
Remember last year's vacation?
Yeah.
What did you like about it?
Like the hiking,
beach,
sunsets,
love of food,
and I like watching the animals.
Yeah, we really savor the simple things in creation.
Jehovah made us with the ability to enjoy life.
And we see his creativity in the incredible variety of life on earth.
The variety we see in the animal kingdom is breathtaking.
Oceans alone,
we find moving things without number.
Living creatures,
small as well as great.
The waters are teeming with life.
Jehovah's many and varied works are wonderful.
In addition to variety,
the instinctive behaviors that we see attest to Jehovah's wisdom,
how do birds find their way as they migrate thousands of miles?
How do they know that flying in a V-formation can serve energy?
How does a beaver know how to build a dam?
And what materials to use?
Who teaches a spider how to measure out the geometric patterns of its web?
What makes the diversity and behaviors we see in nature?
All the more wondrous is their source.
Jehovah carefully concealed within each living cell a special type of molecule
called deoxyribonucleic acid, commonly known as DNA.
Each DNA molecule is composed of a series of smaller molecules called nucleotides,
cytosine, guanine, adenine, and thymine.
These nucleotides are linked in long strands twisted into a double helix.
Just as individual letters can be arranged to make up different words,
these four nucleotides, C, G, A, and T,
are arranged in specific combinations to identify amino acids.
In turn, these amino acids are the fundamental components of all living things.
Incredibly, whether a majestic redwood or an exotic orchid,
a giant whale, or a newborn baby,
the design for every living organism is recorded in the same format,
a personal DNA blueprint.
Appropriately, the psalmist said,
How many your works are, O Jehovah?
All of them in wisdom you have made.
The earth is full of your productions.
But nowhere is Jehovah's wisdom and love more evident than in his creation of humans.
From its very beginning, human life has potential far beyond that of any other creation on earth.
You kept me screened off in the belly of my mother.
My bones were not hidden from you when I was made in secret,
when I was woven in the lowest parts of the earth.
Your eyes saw even the embryo of me.
And in your book, all its parts were down in writing.
What makes us so unique of all of Jehovah's earthly creations?
How are we different?
Genesis 126 states that Jehovah went on to say,
Let us make man in our image according to our likeness.
We have been designed to reflect the personality of Jehovah himself,
our ability to reason, our inborn spiritual need,
our capacity for love.
All separate us from God's animal creation.
Further, in designing us, Jehovah gave us the potential to go on living forever.
Our selves, the tiny building blocks that make up our body,
are designed to continually regenerate.
Jehovah also provided us with a masterpiece of design,
made to last us forever.
Our brain contains some 100 billion neurons.
Each neuron is a special nerve cell with connections to thousands of other neurons,
some with as many as 250,000 others.
Collectively, they store the information that makes us who we are.
Amazingly, our creative capacity and potential for learning is limitless.
Observing life draws us closer to Jehovah.
He designed us to learn forever,
to enjoy life around us forever.
And this makes us look forward to living forever.
Out of love, Jehovah promises a life that we can only dream of.
Jehovah will cleanse the earth and restore the paradise.
In this new world, we will appreciate animal creation like never before.
We can only imagine how rich the real life will be.
As we grow to perfection, we will go on learning about life,
our beautiful home, and Jehovah.
Love.
Peace.
And happiness will fill our hearts.
Although the paradise is yet future,
taking time to discover Jehovah's creation will add purpose and meaning to your life right now.
In vain, many have searched for purpose and meaning through careers, money, and entertainment.
Man's world is designed to draw us away from Jehovah.
Whether it does so or not is up to us.
If you want to draw closer to Jehovah,
open your eyes to the world around you and see the one who made it all.
After contemplating creation, Job said,
In hearsay, I have heard about you,
but now my own eye does see you.
We can see Jehovah everywhere.
In the majestic heavens above,
in the precious home he made for us.
In how he designed life itself,
every living thing on our beautiful earth, no matter how small,
reflects the extraordinary creative skill,
originality, and wisdom of our loving creator.
Even as we enjoy life forever,
we will never stop being odd and amazed by our wonderful father,
the grand artist of creation, Jehovah.
After viewing this video,
surely we appreciate why glorious creatures in the invisible heavens
felt impelled to declare,
you are worthy, Jehovah, even our God,
to receive the glory and the honor and the power
because you created all things.
And because of your will, they existed and were created.
Creation's wonders should move you to have feelings
such as expressed at Psalm 19, in verse 1,
which says,
The heavens are declaring the glory of God.
And of the work of his hands, the expanse is telling.
And at Psalm 104, verse 24, the Psalmist exclaims,
How many of your works are, Jehovah?
All of them in wisdom you have made.
The earth is full of your productions.
How much of God's creation do you notice each day?
If you have children,
do you help them to see Jehovah's infinite wisdom
and the depths of his love for us
by drawing their attention to the things he has made?
When Jehovah created the first man at him,
he put him in a beautiful paradise garden.
One of Adam's first assignments was to carefully observe
the animal creation and study their characteristics.
Then he gave each a name.
Would you have enjoyed that assignment?
No doubt in that paradise it would have been easy
to become absorbed with the works of Jehovah's hands
and then be moved to glorify the Creator.
Today's situation, however, is dreadfully different.
There is no paradise.
There are no sinless humans.
Selfish humans are ruining the wonderful home
given to humankind.
More and more people live in cities,
where the physical elements of heaven and earth
often go unnoticed and are not fully appreciated.
So many are preoccupied with the imagery
and fantasies of television, movies, and video games.
We must resist the trend in today's world
to ignore the works of Jehovah's hand.
When comforting the poor people of his day,
Jesus told them to observe intently the birds of heaven
and to take a lesson from the lilies of the field.
Why did he use this approach?
His encouragement to draw lessons
from Jehovah's wondrous creation
would add depth to their faith.
It would instill confidence in the Creator
and build appreciation for His wisdom,
saving power, and love.
To cultivate such godly qualities,
we do well to read the Bible daily
and attend Christian meetings regularly.
And you parents,
having a weekly Bible study with your children
will help them to cultivate a profound appreciation
for our maker's wondrous works.
It is wise not to be unduly distracted
by the works of this world.
Neither should we become totally absorbed
in personal pursuits or selfish interests.
Make the time and effort
to observe intently all the wonderful works of God's creation.
Doing so will draw you ever closer to Jehovah,
the one who made everything beautiful in its time.